Add How-To: Portable Resources guide (#835)
radius-project/docs: docs/content/guides/author-apps/portable-resources/howto-author-portable-resources/index.md

---
type: docs

> title: "How-To: Author a portable resources"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "How-To: Author portable resources"
```

> linkTitle: "Author a portable resource"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
linkTitle: "Author portable resources"
```

description: "Learn how to author portable resources in Radius"
weight: 200
categories: "How-To"
tags: ["portability"]
---

> This guide will provide an overview of how to author a portable resource for your [Radius Application]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/application/overview" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will teach you how to author a portable resource for your [Radius Application]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/application/overview" >}}).
```

### Prerequisites

Before you get started, you'll need to make sure you have the following tools and resources:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [rad CLI]({{< ref "installation#step-1-install-the-rad-cli" >}})
```
rad cli is required pre-requisite

> - [Radius initialized with `rad init`]({{< ref getting-started >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Radius environment]({{< ref "installation#step-3-initialize-the-radius-control-plane-and-the-radius-environment" >}})
```

- [Radius Bicep VSCode extension]({{< ref "installation#step-2-install-the-radius-bicep-extension" >}})

## Step 1: Define a container resource

> Create a Bicep file `app.bicep`, add a container resource that will be leveraged by your portable resource later:

Reviewer: In this flow, if rad init is done as a pre-requisite following the installation guide 'app.bicep' is already created with demo container definition

Reviewer 2: For how-to guides I'd prefer if we didn't assume the user scaffolded an application. Let's make the how-to guides stand on their own without the scaffolded app.

{{< rad file="snippets/app.bicep" embed=true marker="//EMPTYCONTAINER" >}}

## Step 2: Define your portable resource

> 

Reviewer: Adding some context about manually defining the portable resource and defining via recipes could help

{{< tabs Recipe Manual >}}

{{% codetab %}}

Recipes enable a separation of concerns between infrastructure operators and developers by automating infrastructure deployment. To learn more visit the [Recipes overview]({{< ref "/guides/recipes/overview" >}})

{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}

Find the schema needed for the supported Radius resource by visiting the [Radius resource schema docs]({{< ref resource-schema >}}). For this example you can follow along and define a RedisCache resource:

{{< rad file="snippets/app-redis-manual.bicep" embed=true marker="//MANUAL" >}}

{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

> ## Step 3: Accessing your portable resource

Reviewer: Since this is about authoring portable resources, will it help to go deep on some of the properties of portable resources like `connection string`, and `secrets` and the functions to retrieve them?  Also, linking up the schema doc to know more about the properties of each of the portable resources  will be helpful

Author: Added a description with a link to the schema page, just not sure how in depth it should be but let me know if its in the right track.

Reviewer: I was thinking more of accessing the connection string or other properties of Redis resources and using them as env variables but that may not be applicable here as connections takes care of that.

> Users can leverage their portable resources and establish connections to their container resources by adding accessing properties:

Reviewer 2: Instead of phrasing this as "Users can", make this an action that a user takes: "Define a connection between your container and the Redis cache in order to track the dependency and set environment variables"

I'd also add a hyperlink to the connections docs in there

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Author portable resources"
linkTitle: "Author portable resources"
description: "Learn how to author portable resources in Radius"
weight: 200
categories: "How-To"
tags: ["portability"]
---

This guide will teach you how to author a portable resource for your [Radius Application]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/application/overview" >}}).

### Prerequisites

Before you get started, you'll need to make sure you have the following tools and resources:
- [rad CLI]({{< ref "installation#step-1-install-the-rad-cli" >}})

> - [Radius environment]({{< ref "installation#step-3-initialize-the-radius-control-plane-and-the-radius-environment" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Radius environment]({{< ref "installation#step-3-initialize-radius" >}})
```

> - [Radius Bicep VSCode extension]({{< ref "installation#step-2-install-the-radius-bicep-extension" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Radius Bicep VSCode extension]({{< ref "installation#step-2-install-the-vs-code-extension" >}})
```

## Step 1: Define a container resource

Create a Bicep file `app.bicep`, add a container resource that will be leveraged by your portable resource later:

{{< rad file="snippets/app.bicep" embed=true marker="//EMPTYCONTAINER" >}}

## Step 2: Define your portable resource

> Portable resources provide **abstraction** and **portability** to Radius Applications. Radius currently offers a manual declaration of resources or allows a user to leverage Recipes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Portable resources provide **abstraction** and **portability** to Radius Applications. Radius currently offers options to manually provision the resources or automatically provision them via Recipes.
```

{{< tabs Recipe Manual >}}

{{% codetab %}}

Recipes enable a separation of concerns between infrastructure operators and developers by automating infrastructure deployment. To learn more visit the [Recipes overview]({{< ref "/guides/recipes/overview" >}})

{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}

> Find the schema needed for the supported Radius resource by visiting the [Radius resource schema docs]({{< ref resource-schema >}}). For this example you can follow along and define a RedisCache resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a RedisCache resource with the `resourceProvisioning` mode as `manual`. This enables you to configure the underlying Redis resource
```

{{< rad file="snippets/app-redis-manual.bicep" embed=true marker="//MANUAL" >}}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Refer to the [Redis resource schema] ({{< ref "/resource-schem/cache/redis >}}) for more details.

```

{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Step 3: Accessing your portable resource

> Resources all have different schemas with differing requirements when it comes to defining properties or relations between other resources. When it comes to `connections` users can check out the [container resource schema page]({{< ref "container-schema" >}}) for additional information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can access the portable resource via [`connections`]({{< ref "guides/author-apps/containers#connections" >}}). Update your container definition to add a connection to the new Redis cache. This results in environment variables for connection information automatically set on the container.
```

> Resources all have different schemas with differing requirements when it comes to defining properties or relations between other resources. When it comes to `connections` users can check out the c[container resource schema page]({{< ref "container-schema" >}}) for additional information.

Author: ```suggestion
Resources all have different schemas with differing requirements when it comes to defining properties or relations between other resources. When it comes to `connections` users can check out the [container resource schema page]({{< ref "container-schema" >}}) for additional information.
```

> Define a connection between your container and the Redis Cache in order to track the dependency and set environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Author portable resources"
linkTitle: "Author portable resources"
description: "Learn how to author portable resources in Radius"
weight: 200
categories: "How-To"
tags: ["portability"]
---

This guide will teach you how to author a portable resource for your [Radius Application]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/application/overview" >}}).

> ### Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

Before you get started, you'll need to make sure you have the following tools and resources:
- [rad CLI]({{< ref "installation#step-1-install-the-rad-cli" >}})
- [Radius environment]({{< ref "installation#step-3-initialize-radius" >}})
- [Radius Bicep VSCode extension]({{< ref "installation#step-2-install-the-vs-code-extension" >}})

## Step 1: Define a container resource

Create a Bicep file `app.bicep`, add a container resource that will be leveraged by your portable resource later:

{{< rad file="snippets/app.bicep" embed=true marker="//EMPTYCONTAINER" >}}

## Step 2: Define your portable resource

Portable resources provide **abstraction** and **portability** to Radius Applications. Radius currently offers options to manually provision the resources or automatically provision them via Recipes.

{{< tabs Recipe Manual >}}

> {{% codetab %}}

Reviewer 2: Should there be a code snippet in here?

Author: Let me know if the code snippet is alright, tried to include both default and a specified name

Recipes enable a separation of concerns between infrastructure operators and developers by automating infrastructure deployment. To learn more visit the [Recipes overview]({{< ref "/guides/recipes/overview" >}})

{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}

Add a RedisCache resource with the `resourceProvisioning` mode as `manual`. This enables you to configure the underlying Redis resource

{{< rad file="snippets/app-redis-manual.bicep" embed=true marker="//MANUAL" >}}

> Refer to the [Redis resource schema] ({{< ref "reference/resource-schema/cache/redis" >}}) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [Redis resource schema]({{< ref "reference/resource-schema/cache/redis" >}}) for more details.
```

{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

> ## Step 3: Accessing your portable resource

Reviewer 2: Please make this match the other titles. --> "Access your portable resources"

You can access the portable resource via [`connections`]({{< ref "guides/author-apps/containers#connections" >}}). Update your container definition to add a connection to the new Redis cache. This results in environment variables for connection information automatically set on the container.

{{< rad file="snippets/app-redis-manual.bicep" embed=true marker="//CONTAINER" markdownConfig="{linenos=table,hl_lines=[\"19-22\"]}">}}

## Step 4: Deploy your app

1. Run your application in your environment:

    ```bash
    rad run ./app.bicep -a demo
    ```

1. Visit [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser. You should see the following page, now showing injected environment variables:

>    <img src="./demo-with-redis-screenshot.png" alt="Screenshot of the demo app with all environment variables" width=1000px />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {{< image src="demo-with-redis-screenshot.png" alt="Screenshot of the demo app with all environment variables" width=1000px >}}
```
We have a new image shortcode resolving path issues. Lets use it for consistency

## Cleanup

Run `rad app delete` to cleanup your Radius application, container, and Redis cache:

```bash
rad app delete -a demo
```

## Further reading

> - [Portable resource overview]({{< ref portable-resources >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Portable resource overview]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/portable-resources/overview" >}})
```

Portable resources provide **abstraction** and **portability** to Radius Applications. Radius currently offers options to manually provision the resources or automatically provision them via Recipes.

{{< tabs Recipe Manual >}}

{{% codetab %}}

Recipes enable a separation of concerns between infrastructure operators and developers by automating infrastructure deployment. You can run a default recipe registered in your environment or select the specific Recipe you want to run. 

{{< rad file="snippets/app-redis-recipe.bicep" embed=true marker="//Recipe" >}}

 To learn more visit the [Recipes overview]({{< ref "/guides/recipes/overview" >}}).

{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}

Add a RedisCache resource with the `resourceProvisioning` mode as `manual`. This enables you to configure the underlying Redis resource

{{< rad file="snippets/app-redis-manual.bicep" embed=true marker="//MANUAL" >}}

Refer to the [Redis resource schema]({{< ref "reference/resource-schema/cache/redis" >}}) for more details.

{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Step 2: Define a container resource

In your Bicep file `app.bicep`, add a container resource that will be leveraged by your portable resource later:

> {{< rad file="snippets/app.bicep" embed=true marker="//EMPTYCONTAINER" >}}

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is matching up with the example below. Also make sure to show the entire file, as the reader needs the import statements and the parameters in their file in addition to the container

## Step 3: Access your portable resources

> You can access the portable resource via [`connections`]({{< ref "guides/author-apps/containers#connections" >}}). Update your container definition to add a connection to the new Redis cache. This results in environment variables for connection information automatically set on the container.

Reviewer 2: Could you update this to show both the connections option, as well as manually acceessing properties and setting environment variables? Would be useful for developers writing new apps where they can access the environment variables we set (CONNECTION_REDIS_URL) as well as set values to existing environment variables (CACHE_URL).

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Author portable resources"
linkTitle: "Author portable resources"
description: "Learn how to author portable resources in Radius"
weight: 200
categories: "How-To"
tags: ["portability"]
---

This guide will teach you how to author a portable resource for your [Radius Application]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/application/overview" >}}).

## Prerequisites

Before you get started, you'll need to make sure you have the following tools and resources:
- [rad CLI]({{< ref "installation#step-1-install-the-rad-cli" >}})
- [Radius environment]({{< ref "installation#step-3-initialize-radius" >}})
- [Radius Bicep VSCode extension]({{< ref "installation#step-2-install-the-vs-code-extension" >}})

> ## Step 1: Define a container resource

Reviewer 2: What if we combined steps 1 and 3 together and made them come after step 2. That way the flow is more "Define a portable resource first, and now you can connect to it via a container and a connection"

Create a Bicep file `app.bicep`, add a container resource that will be leveraged by your portable resource later:

{{< rad file="snippets/app.bicep" embed=true marker="//EMPTYCONTAINER" >}}

## Step 2: Define your portable resource

Portable resources provide **abstraction** and **portability** to Radius Applications. Radius currently offers options to manually provision the resources or automatically provision them via Recipes.

{{< tabs Recipe Manual >}}

{{% codetab %}}

Recipes enable a separation of concerns between infrastructure operators and developers by automating infrastructure deployment. To learn more visit the [Recipes overview]({{< ref "/guides/recipes/overview" >}}). You can run a default recipe registered in your environment or select the specific Recipe you want to run. 

#### Default Recipe

{{< rad file="snippets/app-redis-recipe.bicep" embed=true marker="//Recipe" >}}

> #### Specifying a Recipe by name

Reviewer 2: I think sub-choices within a tab choice is too confusing. Let's instead just have the code snippet be the default Recipe and we add a sentence that says "For more information on Recipes refer to the Recipe docs"
